# File uploads

## Uploading

File uploads are handled by the `ReConnect::Models::File#upload` method, which
takes the uploaded file data as a string, and an (optional) options hash.

The available keys for the options hash are:

* `:filename` - The original filename of the uploaded file

The `File#upload` function generates a unique file ID. This ID is used for file
lookups, and is used for key derivation for encrypting the uploaded file.

All uploaded files are encrypted on disk using the standard `ReConnect::Crypto`
functions. The key derivation parameters are as follows:

* Table: `"file"`
* Column: the file ID (as a hexadecimal string)
* Row: `""` (empty string)

## Storage

The `files` database table stores information about uploaded files. This table
stores the following:

* `file_id`: The generated file ID
* `file_hash`: The SHA256 digest of the encrypted file
* `creation`: The time this file was uploaded
* `mime_type`: The detected MIME type
* `original_fn`: The original filename of this file, as passed to `File#upload`

Uploaded files are stored in a directory configured by the `file-storage-dir`
configuration setting. Within the configured directory, files are stored in
subfolders, the names of which are the hexadecimal representation of the first
byte of the SHA256 hash of the file. As an example, for a hash of `a0b1c2...`,
the file path would be `#{upload_dir}/a0/a0b1c2...`.

## Downloading

Files are downloaded through the `/filedl/:fileid/:token` endpoint, where
`:fileid` is the file's ID, and `:token` is a download token.

A download token is a standard token with the `use` field set to
`file_download`, and the `extra_data` field set to the file's ID. Download
tokens are generated by the `generate_download_token(user)` method on a File
object (passing in the `User` object to create the token for), which returns a
`ReConnect::Models::Token` object. Download tokens expire 1 hour after their
creation.

When a client requests to download a file, the endpoint checks that the provided
token is valid and has not expired, that the token's user matches the logged in
user, and that the `extra_data` field on the token matches the requested file.

If all of these checks are successful, the endpoint decrypts the file and
serves it to the client.
